.TH "<util/delay.h>: Convenience functions for busy-wait delay loops" 3 "15 Dec 2017" "Version 2.0.0" "avr-libc" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
<util/delay.h>: Convenience functions for busy-wait delay loops \- 
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBF_CPU\fP   1000000UL"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fB_delay_ms\fP (double __ms)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fB_delay_us\fP (double __us)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
.PP
.nf
    #define F_CPU 1000000UL  // 1 MHz
    //#define F_CPU 14.7456E6
    #include <util/delay.h>
.fi
.PP
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
As an alternative method, it is possible to pass the F_CPU macro down to the compiler from the Makefile. Obviously, in that case, no \fC#define\fP statement should be used.
.RE
.PP
The functions in this header file are wrappers around the basic busy-wait functions from <\fButil/delay_basic.h\fP>. They are meant as convenience functions where actual time values can be specified rather than a number of cycles to wait for. The idea behind is that compile-time constant expressions will be eliminated by compiler optimization so floating-point expressions can be used to calculate the number of delay cycles needed based on the CPU frequency passed by the macro F_CPU.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
In order for these functions to work as intended, compiler optimizations \fImust\fP be enabled, and the delay time \fImust\fP be an expression that is a known constant at compile-time. If these requirements are not met, the resulting delay will be much longer (and basically unpredictable), and applications that otherwise do not use floating-point calculations will experience severe code bloat by the floating-point library routines linked into the application.
.RE
.PP
The functions available allow the specification of microsecond, and millisecond delays directly, using the application-supplied macro F_CPU as the CPU clock frequency (in Hertz). 
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define F_CPU   1000000UL"
.PP
CPU frequency in Hz. The macro F_CPU specifies the CPU frequency to be considered by the delay macros. This macro is normally supplied by the environment (e.g. from within a project header, or the project's Makefile). The value 1 MHz here is only provided as a 'vanilla' fallback if no such user-provided definition could be found.
.PP
In terms of the delay functions, the CPU frequency can be given as a floating-point constant (e.g. 3.6864E6 for 3.6864 MHz). However, the macros in <\fButil/setbaud.h\fP> require it to be an integer value. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void _delay_ms (double __ms)"Perform a delay of \fC__ms\fP milliseconds, using \fB_delay_loop_2()\fP.
.PP
The macro F_CPU is supposed to be defined to a constant defining the CPU clock frequency (in Hertz).
.PP
The maximal possible delay is 262.14 ms / F_CPU in MHz.
.PP
When the user request delay which exceed the maximum possible one, \fB_delay_ms()\fP provides a decreased resolution functionality. In this mode \fB_delay_ms()\fP will work with a resolution of 1/10 ms, providing delays up to 6.5535 seconds (independent from CPU frequency). The user will not be informed about decreased resolution.
.PP
If the avr-gcc toolchain has __builtin_avr_delay_cycles() support, maximal possible delay is 4294967.295 ms/ F_CPU in MHz. For values greater than the maximal possible delay, overflows results in no delay i.e., 0ms.
.PP
Conversion of \fC__ms\fP into clock cycles may not always result in integer. By default, the clock cycles rounded up to next integer. This ensures that the user gets at least \fC__ms\fP microseconds of delay.
.PP
Alternatively, by defining the macro \fC__DELAY_ROUND_DOWN__\fP, or \fC__DELAY_ROUND_CLOSEST__\fP, before including this header file, the algorithm can be made to round down, or round to closest integer, respectively.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
.RE
.PP
The implementation of \fB_delay_ms()\fP based on __builtin_avr_delay_cycles() is not backward compatible with older implementations. In order to get functionality backward compatible with previous versions, the macro \fC'__DELAY_BACKWARD_COMPATIBLE__'\fP must be defined before including this header file. Also, the backward compatible algorithm will be chosen if the code is compiled in a \fIfreestanding environment\fP (GCC option \fC-ffreestanding\fP), as the math functions required for rounding are not available to the compiler then. 
.SS "void _delay_us (double __us)"Perform a delay of \fC__us\fP microseconds, using \fB_delay_loop_1()\fP.
.PP
The macro F_CPU is supposed to be defined to a constant defining the CPU clock frequency (in Hertz).
.PP
The maximal possible delay is 768 us / F_CPU in MHz.
.PP
If the user requests a delay greater than the maximal possible one, \fB_delay_us()\fP will automatically call \fB_delay_ms()\fP instead. The user will not be informed about this case.
.PP
If the avr-gcc toolchain has __builtin_avr_delay_cycles() support, maximal possible delay is 4294967.295 us/ F_CPU in MHz. For values greater than the maximal possible delay, overflow results in no delay i.e., 0us.
.PP
Conversion of \fC__us\fP into clock cycles may not always result in integer. By default, the clock cycles rounded up to next integer. This ensures that the user gets at least \fC__us\fP microseconds of delay.
.PP
Alternatively, by defining the macro \fC__DELAY_ROUND_DOWN__\fP, or \fC__DELAY_ROUND_CLOSEST__\fP, before including this header file, the algorithm can be made to round down, or round to closest integer, respectively.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
.RE
.PP
The implementation of \fB_delay_ms()\fP based on __builtin_avr_delay_cycles() is not backward compatible with older implementations. In order to get functionality backward compatible with previous versions, the macro \fC__DELAY_BACKWARD_COMPATIBLE__\fP must be defined before including this header file. Also, the backward compatible algorithm will be chosen if the code is compiled in a \fIfreestanding environment\fP (GCC option \fC-ffreestanding\fP), as the math functions required for rounding are not available to the compiler then. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for avr-libc from the source code.
